# SC03-TC06: Manage a Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster with Tanzu Mission Control

This test case demonstrates the TMC platform's ability to monitor and manage remote deployed Kubernetes clusters.

---

## Test Case Summary

The DevOps Engineer accesses the SaaS-based, TMC web console UI.  Then, registers and attaches an existing on-premise TKC to the TMC service. Next, executes a built-in, basic API reachability inspection against the cluster. Then, reviews the cluster's summary metrics collected and workload configuration details. Next, creates a managed namespace and applies an RBAC policy to the new namespace, requiring Developers to authenticate with SSO for access to API resources. Lastly, the Developer logs in to the TKC API from the CLI and confirms the namespace was created and the access policy is in effect.

---

## Prerequisites

* Test cases: SC01-TC01, SC01-TC02, SC01-TC04
* User Access and organization configured in TMC cloud service
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials
* Developer01 Engineer console and user credentials
* Permit TCP/443 outbound from TKC egress CIDR to:
    * `*.tmc.cloud.vmware.com`
    * `vmware-docker-olympus-extensions.bintray.io`
    * `cell-whitesand-aws-usw2-core-47acfezm.s3.amazonaws.com`
* If an inline corporate proxy in the Internet path, reference [Attach a Cluster That Is Running Behind a Proxy Server
](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Mission-Control/services/tanzumc-using/GUID-97672F56-2AD4-46E6-94E1-805ED38D06C7.html)

---

## Test Procedure

1. Open a web browser and go to the URL https://cloud.vmware.com. Select **Log In** and enter an authorized user credentials. Select **Console** then after redirected to the *My Services* page, select **VMware Tanzu Mission Control**
2. In the left pane, select **Clusters**. Next, in the main pane, select **ATTACH CLUSTER**

3. Enter the following values for attaching the PoC TKC to TMC

    * Cluster Name **tkc01-mm-small**
    * Cluster group **default**
    * Description (optional) **PoC Test Plan TKC**
    * Labels (optional) env:poc

    Select **NEXT**

4. For installing the TMC agent to the PoC TKC, copy the customized `kubectl` command to memory or notes. To review the TMC agent configuration details, select the View YAML hyperlink.
5. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the TKC API. Reference the [Configuration Supplement](../supplements/client-configuration.md##-Login-to-a-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Cluster-as-a-vCenter-Single-Sign-On-User) for details on obtaining the CLI tools and command syntax.
    Set the context to tkc01-mm-small

    ```sh
    kubectl config use-context tkc01-mm-small
    ```

6. Paste the TMC command recorded in Step 4 to the terminal and press **[return]**. For example,

    ```sh
    kubectl create -f "https://saleseng.tmc.cloud.vmware.com/installer?89f03d065f78f632"
    ```

7. Monitor the status of the TMC agent pods until all report STATUS either Running or Completed. Use the following command to periodically review the status.

    ```sh
    kubectl get pods -n vmware-system-tmc
    ```

8. Return to the TMC web UI and select **VERIFY CONNECTION**
9. Select **VIEW YOUR CLUSTER**
10. Review the status for *Agent and extensions health* and verify all items reports healthy
11. In the Inspection section, select **RUN INSPECTION**
12. Confirm the Cluster name is **tkc01-mm-small**. Next, Select **Lite**. Then, select **RUN INSPECTION**. Allow five (5) minutes for the inspection to complete. Afterward, select the hyperlink under Result to view the details.
13. Return to the cluster overview page by selecting the **tkc01-mm-small** hyperlink. Review the summary metrics information collected from the cluster.
14. Select the **Nodes** tab. Verify all nodes report Status is healthy. Then, select any one of the node's hostname hyperlink to review node-specific details, including scheduled pods. Use the back arrow icon for returning to the Nodes summary tab.
15. Select the **Namespaces** tab. Next, select any one of the namespace's created as part of an earlier test case and contains a deployment/replicaset with running pods. All else, select the vmware-system-tmc as an example. Then, review the namespace CPU and Memory usage and summary Workloads' information. 
16. Select any one of the Workload object's hyperlink. Next, review the workload's CPU and Memory usage, Pods status, and Source (YAML). Select any one of the Pod's hyperlink and review its CPU and Memory usage, container image(s), and Source (YAML). Return to the cluster overview page by selecting the **tkc01-mm-small** hyperlink.
17. Select the **Namespaces** tab. Next, select **NEW NAMESPACE**. Then, enter the following values

    * Cluster **tkc01-mm-small**
    * Workspace **default**
    * Name **tmc-sc03-tc06**
    * Description **PoC Test Plan TKC**
    * Labels (optional) env:poc

    Select **CREATE**

18. From the list of namespaces, identify the new namespace, tmc-sc03-tc06, and select the hyperlink. In the upper-right of the main pane, select the **ACTIONS** drop-down, then **View Policies**.
19. Under *Policies for namespace tmc-sc03-tc06* > *Direct access policies*, expand tmc-sc03-tc06 to expose the NEW ROLE BINDING option. Select **NEW ROLE BINDING**. Then enter the following values

    * Role **namespace.view**
    * Identities **user**|**group** for Developer01 subject.kind
    * user|group identity `sso:`*`User|Group_Principal_Name`*
        * For example, `sso:DevTeamA@lab.local`
    > Optionally, repurpose account information from test case SC01-TC05 or reference its procedure for additional guidance on a comparable task.

    Select **ADD**. Then, select **SAVE**

20. Using the **Developer01** console and credentials, login to the TKC API. Reference the [Configuration Supplement](../supplements/client-configuration.md##-Login-to-a-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Cluster-as-a-vCenter-Single-Sign-On-User) for details on obtaining the CLI tools and command syntax.
    Set the context to tkc01-mm-small
    <pre> kubectl config use-context tkc01-mm-small</pre>

21. Verify authorization to view pods in the namespace,default

    ```sh
    kubectl auth can-i get pods -n default
    ```

22. Verify authorization to view pods in the new namespace, tmc-sc03-tc06

    ```sh
    kubectl auth can-i get pods -n tmc-sc03-tc06
    ```

23. Verify authorization to create pods in the new namespace, tmc-sc03-tc06

    ```sh
    kubectl auth can-i create pods -n tmc-sc03-tc06
    ```

---

## Test Data

* TMC agent and extensions YAML
* TMC agent container images

---

## Expected Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
8 | Success. The connection to your cluster has been established
10 | all items report healthy
12 | 1 Tests; 1 Succeeded; 0 Failed
13 | all nodes report healthy
21 | no
22 | yes
23 | no

---

## Actual Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
8 |  |
10 |  |
12 |  |
13 |  |
21 |  |
22 |  |
23 |  |

---

## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail

Return to [Test Cases Inventory](../README.md#test-cases-inventory)
