# SC04-TC07: Destroy Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster and Related Objects

>EITHER DELAY PERFORMING THIS TEST CASE UNTIL AFTER ALL OTHER TESTING IS COMPLETE OR CREATE AND ADDITIONAL CLUSTER. SUBSEQUENT TEST CASES IN THIS PLAN EXPECT AN EXISTING KUBERNETES CLUSTER.

A platform operator deletes a Kubernetes cluster, and the clean-up process automatically releases resources into the respective pool capacity

---

## Test Case Summary

A DevOps Engineer lists the existing TKCs in the SC namespaces and identifies a cluster for deletion. The DevOps Engineer deletes the TKC and verifies removal from the SC namespace. The vSphere Admin verifies infrastructure clean-up from VC and NSX-T.

---

## Prerequisites

* SC01-TC01,SC01-TC02,SC01-TC04
* vSphere Administrator console and user credentials
* NSX-T Admin user credentials
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials

---

## Test Procedure

1. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the SC API. Reference the [Configuration Supplement](../supplements/client-configuration.md##Login-to-a-Supervisor-Cluster-as-a-vCenter-Single-Sign-On-User) for details on obtaining the CLI tools and command syntax.

2. Set the context for the ns01 namespace with the command

    ```sh
    kubectl config use-context ns01
    ```

3. List the TKCs with the following command, identify the TKC for deletion, and share the cluster name with the vSphere Admin

    ```sh
    kubectl get tkc
    ```

4. Using the vSphere Administrator console and credentials, login to the VC Web UI and in the title bar, locate the search function field.
5. Enter the TKC cluster name, **tkc01-mm-small**, in the search field and execute the search. Make note of the results returned from the search.
6. Open a new browser tab and go to the NSX-T Manager Web UI, login with the admin account, and on the welcome page, locate the search function field.
7. Enter the TKC cluster name, **tkc01-mm-small**, in the search field and execute the search. Make note of the results returned from the search.
8. Return to the DevOps Engineer console and execute the following command to delete the TKC cluster

    ```sh
    kubectl delete tkc tkc01-mm-small
    ```

9. Repeat the following command to list the TKCs in the SC namespace

    ```sh
    kubectl get tkc
    ```

10. Return to the vSphere Administrator console and in the VC Web UI, repeat the search for **tkc01-mm-small** and record the results.
    > Allow up to 300 secs for the clean-up process to complete and remove all cluster objects
11. In the NSX-T Manager Web UI, repeat the search for **tkc01-mm-small** and with exception to Alarms, record the results.
    > Allow up to 300 secs for the clean-up process to complete and remove all cluster objects

---

## Test Data

None

---

## Expected Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
3 | <pre>NAME             CONTROL PLANE   WORKER   ~    PHASE<br>tkc01-mm-small   3               <b>4</b>        ~    <b>running</b></pre>
8 | <pre>tanzukubernetescluster.run.tanzu.vmware.com "tkc01-mm-small" deleted</pre>
9 | `No resources found in ns01 namespace.`
10 | `Sorry, we could not find any results matching your search criteria.`
11 | No Results

---

## Actual Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
3 |  |
8 |  |
9 |  |
10 |  |
11 |  |

---

## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail

Return to [Test Cases Inventory](../README.md#test-cases-inventory)
