# Test Case: Ingress Controller (Contour) – Layer 7 HTTP for a Sample App Deployed to a Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster

The purpose of this test case is to install Project Contour as an Ingress Controller in a Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster. Then, deploy an application with different versions. Deploy an Ingress object with rules that will route traffic to the appropriate application backends.

---

## Test Case Summary

The test consists of deploying two deployments and exposing them via an Ingress object. The goal is to `curl` the different endpoints and validate communication to the correct Services and Pods.

## Prerequisites
* [SC01-TC01](sc01-tc01.md),[SC01-TC02](sc01-tc02.md),[SC01-TC04](sc01-tc04.md)
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials
* Local clone of [ModernAppsNinja/v7k8s-tc-templates](https://github.com/ModernAppsNinja/v7k8s-tc-templates.git)
  
---
### Test Procedure

1.  Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the TKC API. Reference the [Configuration Supplement](../supplements/client-configuration.md##-Login-to-a-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Cluster-as-a-vCenter-Single-Sign-On-User) for details on obtaining the CLI tools and command syntax.
   
2. Apply `psp-rolebinding.yaml` to create a custom privileged PodSecurityPolicy.
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f sc02/contour-ingress/psp-rolebinding.yaml
    ```
    
3. Apply `install-contour.yaml` to install Contour to the cluster
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f sc02/contour-ingress/install-contour.yaml
    ```

4. Verify that the Contour ingress controller is deployed and the `envoy` LoadBalancer has an `EXTERNAL-IP` IP address provisioned.
    ```sh
    kubectl get services -n projectcontour
    ```

5. Verify that the load balancer is accessible.
    ```sh
    ping `EXTERNAL-IP`
    ```

6. Verify that the Contour and Envoy pods are running.
    ```sh
    kubectl get pods -n projectcontour
    ```

7. Apply the ingress-test YAML configuration
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f sc02/contour-ingress/ingress-http-test.yaml
    ```

8. Verify that the Pods are in a `Running` state and that services `helloworld-v1` and `helloworld-v2` are created. 
    ```sh
    kubectl get pod,svc,ing
    ```

9.  Export the Ingress host IP Address.
    ```sh
    export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl get ing hello-ingress -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    ```

10. Verify that you can `curl` different URL endpoints.
    ```
    curl http://$INGRESS_HOST:80/v1
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: hello-worldv1-69f5578b4-gp28z
    ```
    ```
    curl http://$INGRESS_HOST:80/v2
    Hello, world!
    Version: 2.0.0
    Hostname: hello-worldv2-55cd48ddf5-czwt7
    ```

### Test Data
- Container Image: gcr.io/google-samples/hello-app:1.0
- Container Image: gcr.io/google-samples/hello-app:2.0
- Container Image: docker.io/projectcontour/contour:v1.5.0
- Container Image: docker.io/projectcontour/contour:latest
- Container Image: docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v1.13.1

---
## Expected Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
10  | Verify that you can `curl` v1 and v2 Pod Endpoints |

---

## Actual Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
10 |  |

---

## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail
