# SC05-TC05: Deploying Apps from Tanzu App Catalog to a TKG Cluster

Tanzu Application Catalog supports developer productivity and agility by providing prepackaged applications and components.  


## Test Case Summary

Tanzu Application Catalog (formally Bitnami) provides deployable applications via Helm v3.  This test case is an extension of [SC5-TC04](https://gitlab.eng.vmware.com/tanzu-test-plans/vsphere-7-with-kubernetes/blob/master/sc05/sc05-tc04.md), with a focus Tanzu Application Catalog.  

---

## Prerequisites

* [Tanzu Application Catalog](https://docs.bitnami.com/tanzu-application-catalog/faq/get-started/trial-tac/ "TAC Trial Information") requires a VMware Cloud Service account
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/ "Get Docker") enviornment configured
* [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/ "Installing Helm") configured workstation
* [SC01-TC01](sc01-tc01.md),[SC01-TC02](sc01-tc02.md),[SC01-TC04](sc01-tc04.md)
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials
* Local clone of [ModernAppsNinja/v7k8s-tc-templates](https://github.com/ModernAppsNinja/v7k8s-tc-templates.git)


---

## Test Procedure
1. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the TKC API. Reference the [Configuration Supplement](../supplements/client-configuration.md##-Login-to-a-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Cluster-as-a-vCenter-Single-Sign-On-User) for details on obtaining the CLI tools and command syntax.

1. Register Bitnami Helm Chart repository.
    ```sh
    helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
    ```
1. List or search the Bitnami repository.
    ```sh
    helm search repo bitnami
    ```
1. . Using the helm utility, install Apache web server as a test deployment.
    ```sh
    helm install apache-01  bitnami/apache
    ```
1.  Follow the instructions provided by the output of the Helm install command to extract the Apache URL and verify that it is accesible via curl or a browser.

---

## Test Data

* None

---

## Expected Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
2 | Repository successfully registered.
3 | Helm search repository command provides and extensive list of available software packages.
4 | Helm installs an Apache instance, with connetivity instructions provided in output.
---

## Actual Results

Step | Result |
--- | --- |
2 | 
3 | 
4 | 

---

## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail

Return to [Test Cases Inventory](../README.md#test-cases-inventory)
